RC-3 (phast rcsfreeze C_52; phastinput rcsfreeze C_27)

	Added warnings for incompatibilities in boundary conditions.

	Separated print_locations into input for .xyz.chem and .O.chem

	Added vertical dispersivity.

	Added mask to each zone.

	Fixed bug in head tolerance in steady flow; Did not convert 
		head to pascals for Phast.tmp.

	Changed defaults for print_initial and print_frequency.

	Set water compressibility to zero for all cases,
		confined and unconfined. Eliminates the error if 
		storage is less than water compressibility alone.

	set fluid viscosity to 0.001.

	Made FLUID_PROPERTIES data block obsolete.

	Changed allocate_pressure to allocate_head

	added save_head and echo_input in print_frequency.

	added logic to determine number of meters below node and above node
		for well allocation.

	Minor bug fixes.

	Fixed error in identifying rivers with IBC array, 
		sometimes had too many river segments.

	Steady flow calculation always uses upstream weighting.

	Fixed bugs in cross dispersion.

	Fixed all uninitialized variables in Fortran and 
		checked all INTENT statements.

	Error if cell width is less than well bore diameter.

	Made it an error if print frequency is less than time step.

	Added horizontal and vertical transverse dispersivity.

	Fixed velocity calculation for edges of excluded zones.

	Fixed logic related to an inactive cell above a free surface.

	Finished implementing single log file.

	Made print controls more uniform.

	Changed algorithm for multiple river segments with
		different bottom locations, hydrostatic location of
		water table.

	Fixed bugs with merging files with MPI.

	MPI algorithm for printing sends one message per processor
		instead of one message per cell.

	Fixed memory leak with exchange under some conditions.

	Added alkalinity to .xyz.wel file.

	Minimized reallocation of space when rebalancing.

	PRINT_LOCATIONS can be applied to .O.xyz and .O.chem separately.

	Changed allocation of space for cells so that memory would
		not be as fragmented.

	Allows compilation with long double type for all of PHREEQC.

	Updated to latest PHREEQC: cvode integration, SYS Basic function,
		string functions for Basic, COPY keyword.

	Added digits to current time in printouts, g3 not enough.

	Added digits to timchg. Needs to be same as number of digits
		for print frequencies.

RC-2 (phast rcsfreeze C_42; phastinput rcsfreeze C_14)
	Allow longer file names, check for overflow of field.

	Consistent with PHREEQC version 2.8
		Initialized rate variables
		Unlimited Basic string lengths
		Numbering SOLUTION_SPREAD solutions
		"," error in input file

	Initialized mass-balance variables once instead of twice.

	Slight modification to keep better mass balance
		by ensuring that 1 kgw is transported.

	Modified phastinput to make more consistency checks on data. 
		Check that print frequency >= time step.
		Use 20 place for heads and other properties in Phast.tmp to avoid 
			slight variations in linear boundary conditions.
		Removed flow_only and steady_flow options from steady_flow keyword datablock.

	Fixed cross dispersion to handle nonuniform grid spacing.
		Added warning if crosd == FALSE and alphal != alphat.

	Added PHAST as a separate state in the 
		PHREEQC calculations, corrected
		error when transport was run as
		part of the PHREEQC calculations
		in phast.

	Revised and added error message for case where
		water table is below fixed head cell.

	Fixed bug in distribution of well flow.
		Flow was distributed incorrectly for
		nonhomogeneous aquifer. (1/8/03)

	Added alkalinity to .xyz.wel file.

RC-1-2 (C_37)
	Added some missing files

RC-1

Revised rivers, did not handle multiple river segments within a cell adequately.

Revision of print control.

Default is no cross_dispersion terms.

Added PRINT_LOCATIONS.


Working on Cape Cod problem:
	***Item for documentation
	Steady-flow calculation, takes effect even for flow only
		(1) Needs separate time step from transport
			 or automatic time stepper to find steady flow.

	***Two items for documentation:

	(1) Wells are snapped to nodes, which can make a problem asymetric
		Ideally, Ken will allocate flow to more than one cell if
		location is on a cell boundary.
	(2) Flux and leaky zone definitions are snapped to cells? nodes?
		Thus total flux varies with grid definition
	Ideally, flux, leaky, and river bc are accumulated by polygonal
		area.

